Rewrite NAT section to minimum text (#272)
quicwg/ops-drafts: draft-ietf-quic-manageability.md

of state in the middle of a connection. Use of connection ID specifically
discouraged for NAT applications.

If a NAT hits an operational limit, it is recommended to rather drop the
initial packets of a flow (see also {{sec-filtering}}),
which potentially triggers a fallback to TCP, than using the connection ID to
muliplex mulitple connections on the same IP address port pair which risks
connectivity breakage later, in case the connection ID changes.

## Address Rewriting to Ensure Routing Stability

Use of address rewriting to ensure routing stablity as an approach to
simplify operational routing conceals client address changes and will
therefore mask important signals that drive security mechanisms, and

> as auch opens QUIC up to various attacks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
as such opens QUIC up to various attacks.
```

While QUIC's migration capability makes it possible for an server to survive
address changes, this does not work if the routers or switches in the server

> infrastructure rely on address-port 4-tuple as a NAT rebinding or address
> migration will cause packets to be delivered to the wrong server. {{QUIC_LB}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
infrastructure route using the address-port 4-tuple. If infrastructure routes on
addresses only, NAT rebinding or address
migration will cause packets to be delivered to the wrong server. {{QUIC_LB}}
```

described a way to addresses this problem by coordinating the selection and
use of connection IDs between load-balancers and servers.

> An alternative, potentially simpler approach appears to be the use of NAT
> in front of such an infrastructure setup. However, hiding information about the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Applying address translation at a middlebox to maintain a stable address-port mapping for flows based on connection ID might seem like a solution to this problem. However, hiding information about the
```

> change of the IP address or port conceals important and security relevant

Reviewer: ```suggestion
change of the IP address or port conceals important and security-relevant
```

information from QUIC endpoints and as such would facilitate amplification

> attacks (see section 9 of {{QUIC-TRANSPORT}}). An NAT function that bleaches

Reviewer: ```suggestion
attacks (see section 9 of {{QUIC-TRANSPORT}}). An NAT function that hides
```

> peer address changes, hinders the other end

Reviewer: ```suggestion
peer address changes prevents the other end from
```

> to detect and mitigate these attacks and verify connectivity to the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
detecting and mitigating attacks as the endpoint cannot verify connectivity to the
```

> new address based on QUIC PATH_CHALLENGE and PATH_RESPONSE frames.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
new address using QUIC PATH_CHALLENGE and PATH_RESPONSE frames.
```

of state in the middle of a connection. Use of connection ID specifically
discouraged for NAT applications.

> If a NAT hits an operational limit, it is recommended to rather drop the

Reviewer 2: I think the caution against using Connection ID needs to be a lot stronger.  Things will break, users will notice.  I realize that implementations have to use this to enforce that, but I believe some already are.  See a comment below as well.

Author: Can you open a separate issue for this and propose some text (actually in the issue for now maybe, until this PR is merged) as this PR is only moving but not changing this part of the text.

> initial packets of a flow (see allso {{sec-filtering}}),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
initial packets of a flow (see also {{sec-filtering}}),
```

which potentially triggers a fallback to TCP, than using the connection ID to
muliplex mulitple connections on the same IP address port pair which risks

> breakage later on connection ID change.

Author: ```suggestion
connectivity breakage later, in case the connection ID changes.
```

## Address Rewriting to Ensure Routing Stability

> If the routers or switches in the server infrastructure rely on address-port

Reviewer 3: I don't think this section captures the purpose of the text it's replacing.

1.  Whether or not I have QUIC-LB, if there's some part of the infrastructure that wants stable 4tuples,  I could try to use the CID to catch NAT rebindings and just rewrite the source address to mask the change from the infrastructure. Yes, this will break if CIDs change; but even if the CID stays the same it will also break the security mechanisms that protect attacks related to NAT rebinding. This is the point of the original text.

2. Whether or not I have QUIC-LB, if the CID and 4tuple change there is no way to maintain the original source and IP port for the connection.

> If the routers or switches in the server infrastructure rely on address-port

Author: Regarding your point 1: I think this is covered by 
"this approach is not recommended to be used with NAT functions, as hiding address
 changes from a server prevents the server from validating new addresses,
 which would facilitate amplification attacks"
What's missing?

Regarding you point 2, I would think it is also possible to use similar mechanisms as described in the LB doc to not only encode with server but also the actual connection, no?

> If the routers or switches in the server infrastructure rely on address-port

Author: This is the text from the other rewrite attempt:

```
Concealing client address changes in order to simplify operational routing
 issues will mask important signals that drive security mechanisms, and
 therefore opens QUIC up to various attacks.

While QUIC's migration capability makes it possible for an server to survive
 address changes, this does not work if the routers or switches in the server
 infrastructure rely on address-port 4-tuple as a NAT rebinding or address
 migration will cause packets to be delivered to the wrong server. {{QUIC_LB}}
 addresses this problem proposing a QUIC extension to allow server-load balancer
 coordination to routable CIDs.

An alternative, potentially simpler approach would seem to be the use of NAT
 in front of such an infrastructure setup. However, hiding information about the
 change of the IP address or port conceals important, and security relevant
 information from QUIC endpoints, and as such would facilitate amplification
 attacks (see section 9 of {{QUIC-TRANSPORT}}).

 An NAT that bleaches peer address changes, hinders the other end
 to detect and mitigate these attacks and verify connectivity to the
 new address based on QUIC PATH_CHALLENGE and PATH_RESPONSE frames.
```

Or is this a better starting point?

> If the routers or switches in the server infrastructure rely on address-port

Reviewer 3: I like the other rewrite text better, yes.

On point 1: what I'm saying is that QUIC-LB doesn't enter into it.

On point 2: yes, that is theoretically possible. However, I don't want to suggest in any way that we make CIDs absolutely linkable. Exposing the server mapping is bad enough!

4-tuple, a NAT rebinding or any other address migration on the client side,
even if that could be handled by the QUIC server, will cause packets to be

> delivered to the wrong server. In this case it seems temping to use NAT in

Reviewer: This sentence is too long.

Author: I know. That's my German gens come through. I will break it up in two sentences.

> If the routers or switches in the server infrastructure rely on address-port
> 4-tuple, a NAT rebinding or any other address migration on the client side,
> even if that could be handled by the QUIC server, will cause packets to be
> delivered to the wrong server. In this case it seems temping to use NAT in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the routers or switches in the server infrastructure rely on address-port
4-tuple, a NAT rebinding or any other address migration on the client side,
even if that could be handled by the QUIC server, will cause packets to be
delivered to the wrong server. In this case it seems tempting to use NAT in
```

front of the server infrastructure to provide a stable address 4-tuple,
rather than changing the deployed routing infrastructure. As the connection
ID can change and not-yet-used values are not observable on path, this would

> require servers cooperate to inform the NAT of all new connection IDs,

Author: ```suggestion
require servers cooperate with the in-network device about the use of connection IDs,
```

Is this okay @martinduke ?

Author: Or should we keep the original text and remove the reference to the LB doc?

> similarly as described in {{QUIC_LB}} for load balancers. However, this

Reviewer 3: This is not how QUIC-LB works; the servers do not inform the LB about new connection IDs. In fact, there is no way in QUIC-LB to match two connection IDs to the same connection, merely to the same server.

approach is not recommended to be used with NAT functions, as hiding address
changes from a server prevents the server from validating new addresses,
which would facilitate amplification attacks (see
{{Section 9 of QUIC-TRANSPORT}}).

> For example, an attacker might copy a legitimate QUIC packet and change the
> source address to match its own. In the absence of a bleaching NAT, the
> receiving endpoint would interpret this as a potential NAT rebinding and use a
> PATH_CHALLENGE frame to prove that the peer endpoint is not truly at the new
> address, thus thwarting the attack. A bleaching NAT has no means of sending an
> encrypted PATH_CHALLENGE frame, so it might start redirecting all QUIC traffic
> to the attacker address and thus allow an observer to break the connection.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Okay for me to take this example text out.

In addition, a change of IP address or port is also an input signal to other
internal mechanisms in QUIC. When a path change is detected, path-dependent
variables like congestion control parameters will be reset protecting
the new path from overload.

## Server Cooperation with Load Balancers {#sec-loadbalancing}

> In the case of content distribution networking architectures including load

Reviewer 2: There are a lot of server architectures which are not CDNs and may want to use something like QUIC-LB.

```suggestion
In the case of networking architectures including load
```

balancers, the connection ID provides a way for the server to signal information
about the desired treatment of a flow to the load balancers. Guidance on
assigning connection IDs is given in

> {{?QUIC-APPLICABILITY=I-D.ietf-quic-applicability}} and {{QUIC_LB}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{?QUIC-APPLICABILITY=I-D.ietf-quic-applicability}}. {{QUIC_LB}}
```

describes a system for coordinating selection and use of connection IDs between
load-balancers and servers.

> ## Filtering behavior {#sec-filtering}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Filtering Behavior {#sec-filtering}
```

{{?RFC4787}} describes possible packet filtering behaviors that relate to NATs.
Though the guidance there holds, a particularly unwise behavior is to admit a
handful of UDP packets and then make a decision as to whether or not to filter
it. QUIC applications are encouraged to fail over to TCP if early packets do
not arrive at their destination {{?I-D.ietf-quic-applicability}}, as QUIC is

> based on UDP and there are known block of UDP (see Section {{sec-udp-1312}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
based on UDP and there are known block of UDP (see {{sec-udp-1312}}).
```

Admitting a few packets allows the QUIC endpoint to determine that the path
accepts QUIC. Sudden drops afterwards will result in slow and costly timeouts
before abandoning the connection.

> ## UDP Policing {#sec-udp-1312}

Reviewer 2: Policing has a slightly different meaning(token bucket policer) that's widely used, so can we find a different term in this context?

Author: Blocking?

Author: or just filtering?

Author: Maybe this and the previous section should be merged. But let me merge in the PR first and then do another PR if needed.

Today, UDP is the most prevalent DDoS vector, since it is easy for compromised
non-admin applications to send a flood of large UDP packets (while with TCP the
attacker gets throttled by the congestion controller) or to craft reflection and
amplification attacks. Networks should therefore be

> prepared for UDP flood attacks on ports used for QUIC traffic. One possible

Reviewer 2: If the port really is only used for QUIC, then we're in fairly good shape, it's if the port is used by QUIC, but isn't QUIC traffic.

Author: Yes that's what the text is trying to say.

response to this threat is to police UDP traffic on the network, allocating a
fixed portion of the network capacity to UDP and blocking UDP datagram over that
cap.

> The recommended way to police QUIC

Reviewer 2: This is recommending something that relies on the 4-tuple, but particularly if there's another NAT involved, the 4-tuple may not be stable.  So this puts connections in a situation where the handshake completes, they use the connection for a bit, a NAT rebind occurs, and then the connection is blackholed.

There are defenses against this problem, but this seems like a fairly dangerous recommendation.

Author: I only copied this section to a different position in the draft. Can you please add a separate issue for this.

> packets is to either drop them all or to throttle them based on the hash of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
packets is to either drop them all or to throttle them based on
```

> UDP datagram's source and destination addresses, blocking a portion of the hash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
only source and destination addresses.
```

> space that corresponds to the fraction of UDP traffic one wishes to drop.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

The extra words don't really help here.  If anything, you need to highlight the need to block only a subset of addresses rather than a subset of packets.

Author: Yes, that was the intention here and I think your proposed edit changes the meaning.

(Also I only moved this part of the text in this PR but didn't change the wording. Maybe a separate PR would be better here.)

Author: Also I also musst copied this text to a different place in the draft. Can you maybe open a separate issue for this.

When the handshake is blocked, QUIC-capable applications may failover to TCP

> (at least applications using well-known UDP ports). However, blindly blocking a
> significant fraction of QUIC packets will allow many QUIC handshakes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(at least applications using well-known UDP ports). However, blocking a
fraction of QUIC packets will allow many QUIC handshakes
```

Author: This also changes the meaning completely. This sentence was supposed to say that if you instead just blindly block random QUIC packets without being flow-aware this is really bad.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
(at least applications using well-known UDP ports). However, blocking a
random fraction of QUIC packets across 4-tuples will allow many QUIC handshakes
```

> to complete, preventing a TCP failover, but the connections will suffer from

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to complete, which might discouraging endpoints from attempting to fall back to TCP.
The increased loss the connections experience will only degrade performance.
```

Author: I think prevent fallback is more correct here.
